Hi everyone.
In this video we will see how to assign multiple values in Python.
First, we will start by assigning many values to multiple variables in the same line.
Here we have three variables and three values.
Each variable take values in the same order.
X will take the orange, and z will take the last value.
Let's execute this example.
I execute this part of code execute selection.
Here we have three variables x, y, and z, and each variable take a value.
Here make sure the number of variables match the number of values or Python will throw an error.
Let's try that.
If, for example, I have just two variables, Let's execute the code.
Python will throw an error.
Too many values to unpack.
Expected two.
Because here we have three values, but only for two variables.
The same when I have more variables.
For example, I add another variables.
I execute the code.
Not enough value to unpack.
Expected four.
Got three.
That mean I expected four values because I have four variables.
Remember to be sure that the number of variables match the number of values.
Next How to assign one value to multiple variables.
You can assign the same value to multiple variables in one line.
Here, for example, we have three variables.
Assign it to only one values.
Let's execute this example.
Here x, y, and z are all.
The variable has the same value orange.
Third, we will see how to unpack a collection.
A collection it can be a list a set a tuple a dictionary.
Python allows you to extract the value into variables.
Let's try this example.
Here we have a list with three elements and we have three variables.
Here each variable take values x, take an apple, Y take banana and Zetec cherry.
Same.
If for example, we have.
Four variables that mean the number of variables it's bigger than the number of list.
Let's execute this part of code.
Python will throw an error.
Not enough value to unpack.
Expected four.
Good three because we have four variables and in the list we have just three elements.
Thus mean the number of variable must be the same the number of the list of or the dictionary.
In this example we use the list, but it can be a tuple.
We will have the same result.
Each variable take a value and also it can be a set or a dictionary.
The same result.
We will see more detail about collection in other videos.
We will see more detail about lists, tuples, sets and dictionaries with a lot of examples.
Just a short summary.
In this video we just see how to assign multiple variables, how to assign single value to multiple
variables, and third, how to unpack a collection.